# Minimizing_Loan_Investment_Risks
The lending industry is constantly faced with the challenge of identifying potential loan defaulters to minimize financial risks. The dataset from LendingClub loan defaulters prediction provides valuable information for analyzing and predicting loan default risks. In this report, we explore the potential of using this dataset to analyze and develop a predictive model that can help lenders make informed decisions and minimize the risks associated with loan investments. By leveraging the power of the Random Forest Classifier, we aim to identify key factors and patterns that contribute to loan defaults and build a robust model that can accurately classify potential defaulters. Through analysis, we aim to provide insights and recommendations to improve risk assessment in loan investments and enhance the overall lending process.

**Introduction:**
Banking and finance are the backbones of the world economy. The size of a particular country's banking sector shows how big that country's GDP might be.
Most legal transactions happen through the banking system, and there is a need to ensure the security of funds in financial institutions to build trust.
Banks make the majority of their money by lending out the investors' money to the people who need it for buying a house, car, personal reasons, etc., for a specific interest rate. These banks will face a loss if the borrowers don’t return the borrowed money.
In this project, we look at different factors that could be considered before giving out a loan to ensure that the loan is only sanctioned to people who can repay it.
